in the 23rd century while colonizing new
planets
humans have encountered a hostile
non-technological insectoid species
known as arachnids but commonly referred
to as bugs
the bugs appear to be little more than
savage unrelenting killing machines
though there are suggestions that they
were provoked by the intrusion of humans
into their habitats
in the united citizen federation
citizenship is earned by performing
activities such as military service
which grants individuals opportunities
prohibited to basic civilians
after graduating from high school in
buenos aires john johnny rico
his girlfriend carmen ibanez and psychic
best friend carl jenkins enlist in the
federal service
despite rico's parents disapproval of
military service
carmen becomes a spaceship pilot while
carl joins military intelligence
rico enlists in the mobile infantry and
is surprised to find isabelle dizzy
flores
his fellow ex-student has deliberately
transferred to his squad
in mobile infantry basic training career
sergeant zim ruthlessly trains the
recruits
rico befriends fellow cadets levy and is
later promoted to squad leader
he subsequently receives a dear john
letter from carmen
as she desires a career with the fleet
and now serves under rico's high school
sports rival
xander barcelo following a live fire
training incident that kills one of
rico's squad members and causes another
to quit out of guilt
rico is demoted and flogged he resigns
and calls his parents to ask them if he
can return home
but rescinds his resignation after an
asteroid reported to be launched by the
arachnids
obliterates buenos aires killing his
parents and millions of others
an invasion force is deployed to
kendathu the arachnid's home planet
but the operation severely
underestimates the arachnids and is a
total disaster
rico is severely wounded and mistakenly
reported kia
after recovering he ace and dizzy are
reassigned to the roughnecks
an elite unit commanded by lieutenant
gene raskzak
rico's former high school teacher he
quickly gains the respect of his peers
and is promoted to the rank of corporal
after taking out a tanker bug the
roughnecks respond to a distress call
from planet p
where they reckon oiter an outpost that
has been devastated by bugs
they soon realize that the distress call
is a trap and the arachnid swarmed the
outpost
rico now an acting sergeant euthanizes a
mortally wounded rask zack after a
buried bug bites off his legs
dizzy is killed but the surviving
roughnecks are rescued by carmen and
xander
rico and carmen encounter cal now a
high-ranking intelligence officer
at dizzy's funeral carl reveals that
there is reason to believe an
intelligent brain bug is directing the
other bugs and has been learning how to
fight humans
he field promotes rico to lieutenant and
gives him command of the roughnecks
ordering the mobile infantry units under
his control to return to p in an attempt
to capture the brain bug
the fleet encounters unexpected heavy
fire from the bugs and carmen's ship is
destroyed
carmen and xander's escape pod crashes
into a bug tunnel system near
eco they are surrounded by bugs and a
brain bug uses its proboscis to pierce
sanders skull and eat his brain
as it is about to do the same to carmen
she cuts off its proboscis with a knife
rico watkins and ace arrive and threaten
the bugs with a small nuclear bomb
which the brain bug recognizes they flee
while the brain bug makes its escape
arachnids pursue them and watkins
mortally wounded
sacrifices himself by detonating the
bomb to enable the others to escape
after returning to the surface they find
that former sergeant zim
who had requested a demotion to private
so that he could serve at the front
has captured the brain bug carl tells
rico and carmen that the humans will
soon be victorious now that military
intelligence can study the brain bug